Good to see you again.
In this week, you will learn
about transfer learning,
which is a new concept
in this course.
Transfer learning
allows you to get
better results and
speeds up training.
You'll also be looking
at question answering.
Let's dive in.
In Week 3 of Course 4,
you're going to cover many
different applications of NLP.
One thing you are going to
look at is question answering.
Given the question
and some context,
can you tell us what the answer
is going to be
inside that context?
Another thing you're going to
cover is transfer learning.
For example,
knowing some information by
training something
in a specific task,
how can you make use of
that information and apply
it to a different task?
You're going to look at BERT,
which is known as
the Bidirectional
Encoder Representation
which makes use of transformers.
You'll see how you can use
bi-directionality to
improve performance.
Then you're going to
look at the T5 model.
Basically, what this model
does, you can see here,
it has several possible inputs.
It could be a question,
you get an answer.
It could be a review,
and you'll get the
rating over here.
It's all being fed
into one model.
Let's look at
question answering.
Over here you have context-based
question answering,
meaning you take
in a question and
the context and it
tells you where
the answer is inside
that context over here.
This is the highlighted
stuff which is the answer.
Then you have closed book
question answering
which only takes
the question and it returns
the answer without having
access to a context,
so it comes up with
its own answer.
Previously we've
seen how innovations
in model architecture improve
performance and we've also seen
how data preparation could help.
But over here, you're going
to see that innovations in
the way the training is being
done also improves performance.
In which case, you will see how
transfer learning will
improve performance.
This is the classical training
that you're used to seeing.
You have a course review,
this goes through a model,
and let's say you
predict the rating.
Then you just predict
the rating the
same way as you've
always been doing.
Nothing changed here, this is
just an overview of
the classical training
that you're used to.
Now, in transfer learning,
let's look at this example.
Let's say that you
have movie reviews
and then you feed them into
your model and you
predict a rating.
Over here you have
the pre-train task,
which is on movie reviews.
Now, in training,
you're going to take
the existing model
for movie reviews,
and then you're going to find
two units or train it again,
on course reviews,
and you'll predict the
rating for that review.
As you can see over here,
instead of initializing
the weights from scratch,
you start with the
weights that you
got from the movie reviews,
and you use them as
the starter points when training
for the course reviews.
At the end, you do some
inference over here,
and you do the inference the
same way you're used to doing.
You just take the course review,
you feed this into your model,
and you get your prediction.
You can also use transfer
learning on different tasks.
This is another
example where you
feed in the ratings
and some review,
and this gives you
sentiment classification.
Then you can train it on
a downstream task like
question answering,
where you take the
initial weights over here
and you train it on question
answering. When is Pi day.
The model answers March 14th.
Then you can ask them
model the same question.
When's my birthday over here?
It does not know the answer.
But this is just
another example of how
you can use transfer
learning on different tasks.
Now we're going to look at BERT,
which makes use of
bi-directional context.
In this case, you have
learning from deeplearning.ai,
is like watching the sunset
with my best friend.
Over here the context is
everything that comes before.
Then let's say you're
trying to predict
the next word, deeplearning.ai.
Now, when doing bi-directional
representations,
you'll be looking at the
context from this side and
from this side to
predict the middle word.
This is one of the main
takeaways for bi-directionality.
Now let's look at single
task versus multitask.
Over here you have a single
model which takes in
a review and then
predicts a rating.
Over here you have
another model which takes
in a question and
predicts an answer.
This is a single task each,
like one model per task.
Now, what you can
do here with T5 is,
it is the same
model that's being
used to take the review,
predict the rating, and
then take the question,
and predict the answer.
Instead of having two
independent models,
you end up having one model.
Let's look at T5.
Over here, the main takeaway
is that the more data you have,
generally the better
performance there is.
For example, the English
Wikipedia dataset is
around 13 gigabytes
compared to the C4,
Colossal Clean Crawled Corpus
is about 800 gigabytes,
which is what T5 was trained on.
This is just to
give you like how
much larger the C4 dataset is,
when compared to the
English Wikipedia.
What are the desirable goals
for transfer learning?
First of all, you want to reduce
training time because you
already had a pre-trained model.
Hopefully, once you
use transfer learning,
you'll get faster convergence.
It will also improve
predictions because you'll
learn a few things from
different tasks that
might be helpful and useful for
your currents predictions on
the task you're training on.
Finally, you might
require or need less data
because your model
has already learned
a lot from other tasks.
If you have a smaller dataset,
then transfer learning
might help you.
You now know what
you're about to learn.
I'm very excited to show
you all these new concepts.
In the next video,
we'll start by exploring
transfer learning.